welcome to the we are bbc good food
series in which we introduce you to our
team and our contributors
i'm keith kendrick magazine's editor and
i'm delighted to welcome marverine cole
our new drinks writer
whose regular columns and
recommendations you'll find in good food
and on our website bbcgoodfood.com
maverine is an accredited beer sommelier
broadcaster and journalist
she's won several awards for her
journalism and documentaries and she's a
member of the british guild of beer
writers
she's also collaborated with breweries
on her own beers
i first met her eight years ago when she
was doing a demo at a conference for
parent bloggers
so marverina how are you doing thank you
i'm doing very well thank you so pleased
to join
the bbc good food family yeah great to
have you
on board i'm looking forward to having a
tickle with you uh you know
in real life at some point so tell us
what is a beer similar and how do you
become one
well everyone's heard of a wine
sommelier you know that expert that
comes up to the dinner table next to you
and can kind of recommend wines
no different really except we're
recommending beers so we do have to go
through a process of examination so
that's what i did in 2012.
um you have to apply to the the beer
academy for the somalia ship
you have to have studied several of
their courses
and that are held all around the country
so you can look uh
you can look those up on the uk beer
insider academy
um and for my memory serves me correctly
i did three courses beforehand
and then you have to apply to take the
beer sommelier
exam um and that involves you know
sitting
um and examining beers and testing
whether or not you know beer styles
um a matching food to be and really kind
of proving your beer credentials given
your understanding
of beer and the brewing process that's a
really tough job but i guess somebody's
got to do it
well you know i thought about it and i
thought this would be nice a nice thing
to kind of
to do and also to kind of um kind of
synthesize what i've learned over the
years about
beer and you know it's it's a lovely
little sideline because people do get a
little bit jealous
me too especially so let me ask you
about um about women in beer are more
women drinking beer and if that's the
case
why yeah they absolutely are keith um
there was a survey that's produced at
the the british craft beer report
that was released in march uh produced
by the society of independent brewers
um they represent around 800 small
independent breweries
they surveyed 2 000 people and that
survey
showed that 11 of women say they drink
beer more than once a week
and that was up from six percent the
year before um
and that's really good news because i
think you know more and more women are
getting into more flavorful drinks or
different types of
flavor sensations for their palate you
know as
as well as enjoying you know beer and
certain wine and
you know prosecco and all the recipes
beer has a
different kind of flavor profile that
people can get into
and as well as enjoying beer you know
there's a whole story of the brewers who
make beer which is really
also interesting it's great with food
i'll make a couple of recommendations
and i do through my column as well
um and there's a real growth in low and
no alcohol beers and
free from beers there's so much choice
yeah
that's why women are into it in your
first column for good food you've made
some recommendations for gluten-free
beers why are they important and what's
your favorite what recommendations do
you have
right well gluten-free beers and
similarly kind of vegan beers as
free-from
types of beers are the
biggest growth area for beer
and right now as well as low and no
alcohol beer and that's just because you
know we're becoming more health
conscious we're becoming more aware of
what our bodies like and don't like
and obviously if you um are allergic to
gluten or you have kind of
a condition that means that gluten
affects you
um then but you still like beer you want
this great taste
but without the without the gluten so um
some breweries make
um beers without the barley
uh and the malt and some birds do make
it with but then they reduce the gluten
within the beers
to down to about 20 uh parts per million
um
still flavoursome still fantastic and
you still got that great
experience of beer so that's why gluten
is very so so important and i listed
10 online we talked earlier about uh
wine sommelier and beer similar and i
guess people tend to think of wine and
food
pairing but they don't really associate
beer with food matches
what are a couple of your favorite
combos that our readers can take away
with them without a doubt i mean you
know i was looking at
the coconut and kale curry the september
issue of the magazine
and when you look at um the gluten and
wheat free
hamilton ale or the hamilton ales lager
on my list they would be perfect
combination um
you know because there's this great kind
of spice
in your coconut uh curry um and a great
kind of palette cleansing effect
of the lager and the kind of spice in
that
so you know beers can complement food
they can cut through any kind of
oiliness and
in a in a food and they can cleanse
palettes as well so
so so versatile you can even pair
beers with puddings you know so
there's a beautiful mascarpone roulade
in the september issue
um and that's beautiful and rich with
double cream
and just you know the cheese the kind of
sharpness of the mascarpone cheese as
well
so you might want to try something that
is
low alcohol that's unfiltered like a
pale ale
that could match with that 3.5
so it's low alcohol so it's not going to
knock you out
um and a little sip of that alongside
that roulade
would be amazing anything stews you know
rich kind of red meat based
um or kind of rich with beans and pulses
if you're having something that's
vegetarian
i would suggest something like um a dark
bitter or an extra special bitter you
know um
or even an ipa with that you know i've
just tasted um
sheffield brewery's ipa which is
fantastic very rich almost you know
one zip and you've got to have a little
bit more and then you dive into your
stew
and and the robust nature of that beer
and the kind of multi barley and the
deep raisiny notes are going to work
perfectly
with that stew um you asked me about
kind of um
cheese didn't you so macaroni cheese and
what have you those kind of lovely
warming kind of comforting um home foods
uh let me think what could go with that
with cheese always something that cuts
through cheese because there is kind of
an element of
kind of slightly um cloying nature
around the cheese depending on how much
you want
i love a lot of cheese in my macaroni
cheese um
i think an ipa maybe something like um
thornbridge jaipur yeah which oh it's a
great beer an award-winning beer
and brew by thornbridge in the peak
district but you know that
has some great spicy notes to it
you know it's it's a very sharp
bitterness but there is a
it's oozing with kind of juicy fruits
you know you're getting kind of mango
tropical fruit and it's gooseberry
through that beer and the taste in your
mouth
a very soft mouth feel i think that
would complement
a macaroni cheese down to a tea
thanks martha marie thanks for joining
us i really appreciate you sharing all
your experience and knowledge with us
if you want to tap into will you see
what i did there tap
into marverine's expertise find her
on bbcgoodfood.com and regularly in bbc
good food magazine
thanks for joining us cheers